{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 T: Terrence Corrigan as Interviewer
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 S: = Sheila as Interviewee
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 B: Bernie as Interviewee
\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 S: I\'92m proud of myself.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: Yeah, good work.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I just got to do one other thing real quickly
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 to make sure that I get this.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So give me one second.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And then I'll be back with you in just one second
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 if I can make this work.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 OK, hold on one sec.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I'm just telling it what to record right here.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 OK, so can you still hear me all right?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Yes.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Very well.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R. Awesome.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So if you could each just state your name,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 or you can decide if you want to each go at the same time,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 or if one of you wants to answer a bunch of questions,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and then we can move on.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But if you could state your name and where you live now
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and where you grew up, and it can just be your first name.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: OK, Sheila, I grew up in the Bronx.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Do you want the address?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: No.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Oh, just in the Bronx.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: And where do you live now?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Oh, I live in Manhattan.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: OK, awesome.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And if I asked you to describe the communities
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 that you are part of, how would you answer that question?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: I don't know.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: It could be geographical. It could be thematic.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So, like If you're in a knitting circle and you feel very
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 apart of that , that could be an answer.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Are there any communities that you feel part of?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S. No.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Do you identify as any or one or more ethnic, racial,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 or religious, or national communities in one of those?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Yes, Jewish. And American.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Can we get we together, Rose, would that be better?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: No.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: No.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Let\'92sdo one at a time.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I think that makes sense.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So then, can you tell me about any historical moment
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 that you remember?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Is there anything that comes to mind?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And can you tell me a little bit about what you remember about it?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: I remember 9-11 very clearly, because I had been called to jury
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 duty, and I was downtown when this, when it happened.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And it was very traumatic and very awful.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Bernie and I sat on the couch and watched people stream across
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 the 59th Street Bridge.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It was the most terrifying and glorious day at the same time
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 to show what Americans were capable of doing and coming
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 together.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It was pretty special.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: So had you not yet gone downtown, you were still at home
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 when it happened?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: No.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I had already left the house.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I was on the bus when it happened.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And the bus driver said, we should get off the bus myself
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and one other person.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I was afraid too.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I was new to the city.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I said, I'm not getting off the bus.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And we went further downtown.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And then we heard that all bus drivers
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 needed to come to the tower.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So she said, you have to get off the bus.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And at that point, we got off the bus.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 We walked to First Avenue where a bus full of people
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 stopped for us, thank God, because we were just two people.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And when we got to the UN, the second tower was hit.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And there was such bedlamon the bus.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 The bus driver made us get off the bus.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I walked home from there.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It wasn't a big walk.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 We live on 59th Street.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And at that point, Bernie had been asleep.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And so he didn't even know about this.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So it was really quite a terrible day.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It was amazing.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: I would imagine.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I would love to possibly talk with you more about that
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 another time.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I don't want to delve too much into it now.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But if you're willing, that would be\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Sure.Sure.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: Thank you for sharing that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And on a different topic, was there
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 anything that a favorite food or meal
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 that you had growing up that you particularly remember?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And who made that for you?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: That's very good.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 That's a very hard question.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: Why is it hard?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Well, because my mom, like your grandmother,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 always had to have the emergency chicken on the side.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 In case someone didn't like something.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So my mother, while she wasn't the best cook,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 she was the most gracious cook.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And would have tried to please very much.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And so there's no real one food.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I mean, I just say that, yeah, I think anything
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 my mother made was wonderful.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: And the last question I have is, who is the oldest or ancestor
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 that you know about?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And what you know or remember about them?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So the oldest person, highest up on your tree that you know.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Oldest person, ancestor.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: Yeah.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So I mean, someone that you have some memory
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 or some story about, who is that person?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Maybe my grandfather, I guess.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: But he's gone many, many years.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I just remember him living a few blocks from us
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and coming to watch television when it was new.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 He watched the Cisco kid, which was a big thing for him.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And when I would come home from school there,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 he would be in my living room watching the Cisco Kid
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: And then would you join him in watching it.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: I did not.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I don't know why that was, but I didn't.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Well, thank you so much, Sheila.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Welcome.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: I would love to talk to you more.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But you just want to keep these sort of brief.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Bernie, is this something, just those same questions,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 is that something you'd be interested in answering now?
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Shoot me the questions, one at a time, because I don\'92t know..
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: Of course.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 If you could just state your name.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And where you grew up and where you live now.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: I'm Bernie.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I grew up in the Bronx and in Queens.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 When I was a boy, I was actually
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 born in Manhattan, island\'a0 in a hospital.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But my parents lived in the Bronx until I was 8 years old.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And towards the end of the war, my father
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 was making enough money that my parents\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 bought a house in Queens.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I lived there until I got married.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And then Sheila and I lived for five years
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 in Flushing in two very nice apartments.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And then bought a home in Long Island, which
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 We stayed for\'a0 33 years.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 How did that happen?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So I was always, I was always had a a nice childhood.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I did.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I have no complaint about it as a boy.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 One of the things that I remember very clearly,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 which is what you're asking, I think,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 is that during the last year of the war,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and I must have been 1944 or 45, my parents
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 sent my brother and me to a, to a day,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 a summer camp, a sleep away summer camp.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 in the Poconos, which I hated,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 because it was too religious and it was,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 was insects eating me the whole summer.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But the thing I\'a0 remember the most, it's 1945,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 that I woke up one day,\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 everybody was running around the camp screaming.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It was the end of the war, the last day, the war ended.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And my vision, my visual recollection
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 is instead of having a flag on the flagpole,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 there was some woman's brazier on\'a0 the flagpole.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: to celebrate the end of the war?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: I was almost nine years old, but I'm saying, yeah, okay.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 That was a moment.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I'd there were so many others that are\'a0 moments
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 that just creep into your head for no reason.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Then I, there is no reason for that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I do remember during the war,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 living in the Bronx and having to listen to the sirens
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 when we thought the Nazis were coming,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 looking out for, having blackouts,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 where you had to have blackout shades.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So then if they, if they came over with bombs,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 they couldn't tell there was anybody home,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 because they couldn't see anything like that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Things were scary.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Every kid wore a dog tag in school, did you know that?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 If that was in case, in case you die, you got killed,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 they could identify the body.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Every kid wore a dog tag.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: And you knew the purpose of it?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Having a year old kid wearing a dog tag.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Pretty fucking scary.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And well, we forgot the rest of of the question
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And since they're mixed up, you and I [S]
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 have had some moments together,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 which are really outstanding places
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 that we have gone.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And it's saying to us that this was like a dream
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 because I know it's what it would be in these places.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And having children, the day that Nancy was born,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 especially the first time I've done,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 it's very, very, things that,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 there were a lot of moments like that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I can't pick them out so easily right now.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: Well, I would love to follow up with both of you.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So if in the meantime, you think about anything
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and you want to jot it down or send it to me. Or email or something.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Also,\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Bernie is a fraternal twin.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: I have a fraternal.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I had a fraternal twin brother.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 He died 20 years ago because he didn't take care of himself.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But one of the nice things about having a brother
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 is there was always somebody to play with.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 You didn't have to look for a ball game.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 we would go out in the street
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and just play ball in the street.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 The two of us sometimes.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And we were very different people.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 As we got older, we became more different.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But he was still my brother.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And\'a0 every once and a while I think about him.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: Did you always live nearish to each other?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Or how was your geography?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Did we live near him?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Yes.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Yes.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: On long Island
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: We both lived about 10 minutes away on Long Island.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 He bought a house not far away.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Eventually, he moved to Arizona.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And we moved here to the city.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I live in Manhattan now for 23 years.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I love my life here.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I'm very good lucky to have somebody with me
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 who makes a social life for me.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I'm not always a social person.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But it's become more of an effort.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So Shelia has done that for me.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And we have enjoyed going, especially
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I think going to the theater.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I had a project a few years ago that I was
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 going to save the playbills from all the theater
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 productions that we went to.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And it was so many that was just clogging up space.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Hundreds, literally hundreds of playbills from the theater.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So I cut them all up.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I just keep the cover page and the list of the actors.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I have this.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But that's something that's not a hobby.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And we still do that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 We enjoy the, we enjoy the, what would you call it?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 The, the, that kind of life in Manhattan.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Well, we enjoy what Manhattan offers.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 We try to take advantage.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Yeah.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I worked with 33 years for the school system
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and all kinds of varieties of positions.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Eventually took a pension and they are still sending me
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 the pension 32 years later.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I don't know.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: You are very lucky
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Yes, not a lot of money.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But it's 32 years.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So that's nice.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I feel very fortunate to be where I am.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I never thought I would be this old.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 This age.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 No, I didn't ever.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 When I was a boy, I remember that,\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 it's also in 1944.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 During the war.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I had a vision.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 You know, I don't do that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But I had a vision, of how wonderful could it, would it,\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 be if I could see the year 2000.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I would have to be 64.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 64.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I'll never make it.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: That takes quite, I don't know quite the right the word,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 but like forethought to actually picture yourself ahead of time
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and realize that I don't know.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 That's very interesting.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Yeah.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 eah.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Because 2000 was such a...
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: As far as my grandparents go.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I'm named after my mother's father.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So I never met him.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 My mother's mother died when I was only about eight or nine
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 years old.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So I only have very vague..
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But I do remember my parents, my father's parents,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 we were never really close or\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 anything like that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But they lived across the street from us in the high rise
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 building on a sixth floor.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 They had a dog called Blacky because he was Black.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 That was a clever name.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And the old lady was like a little Russian lady with the print
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 dresses and a hair and a bun.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And the old man was a dyed in the wool communist.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Really?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But I do remember them.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I do.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And one of the sad things in my life was when my parents
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 finally gave up and separated because I knew they had to.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 There was noa question about it.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But I was an adultby then.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 You handle things.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And right now I just feel like every day I get up
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and I look at the clock and I say,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I'll do another 20.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Like to help.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: So Rose, what's going to happen with this?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: Well, let me stop recording.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Hold on one second.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Thank you very much.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: You want to do me?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 My favorite foods.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: Oh.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Oh.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Yeah.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 OK, sure.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I would love to hear about your favorite food.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 What was your favorite food growing up and who?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Growing up.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Gee, I don't know if I had a favorite food growing up.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 One of the things that my brother and I did,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and you could take this, anywayyou want.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Every once in a while my mother would make hamburgers.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 She would fry them in a pan.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So she had this raw meat.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 She would mixed it up with red eggs and a little salt and pepper
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and maybe some chopped onion.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And my brother and I would by and start eating the meat
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 before she cooked it.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: And you still have survived?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Yeah.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Yeah, no.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Well, you know what?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 To this day, if I have an offer of a really good\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Steak tartar.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: I'll have it.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I like that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I still like a good steak, which I don't
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 make have very often anymore.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But we always got a variety of foods.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I have no complaints
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I was very lucky to do that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And my father taught me how to eat foods
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 at my mother's never ate.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 My father taught me how to eat clams and oysters
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and all kinds of other things.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And it's not very Jewish
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But I enjoyed it.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I enjoyed learning about how to do all these things.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I still like that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: So what's your favorite food now?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Gee, I think if I have, I don't know if I have a favorite food.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It's not chicken.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I can tell you that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 A good piece of fish.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 A really good fresh piece of fish.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I really love fresh fish. I do.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I'm going to go with the fresh fish.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 ade in a very simple way.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I don\'92t need a gourmet concoctions.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Just something simple.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I still like simple foods a lot.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I'll go with the fancy foods.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But after a while, I think it's just a way
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 to cover up something that's not so good.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So I like just playing simple.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Yeah, that's me.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 OK, thank you.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I will have a beer once a while.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I'm not a drinker.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But I enjoy a beer with a hot dog or a hamburger.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Just sitting around.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Maybe once a week or twice a week, I'll just sit there.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I like that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: And do you prefer it a glass or in a bottle?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: In a glass
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I don't drink beer out of a bottle.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 The other thing I would do is I will have a glass of wine.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I must have been about 35 or 40 years
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 or when I got interested in wine.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It's become quite a hobby.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I can tell you a lot about wine.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 When you're in the mood, you ask me some questions.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And I'll give you some tips.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And enough that when we go out with friends to dinner,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 and if there's a bottle of wine to be bought,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 everybody turns to me and says, what should we get?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Yes, that's true.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: And it's very nice of them to do that.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Most of the time, they're very pleased with what I choose.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Because I have 50 years of experience doing it.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: And I know nothing about wine.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So I will take you up on some lessons.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Any time.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And really, I enjoy talking about it
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 because there's a lot of chemistry and biology.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It's a big science thing.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And wine.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Rose: Where is the place that your favorites wines are from?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 What region?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Where are your favorite wines from?
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 B: Well, I think I like French and Italian wines.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 There were some great American wines coming from here.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It's hard to pick one.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 I can't pick one.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But I think by and large, I have stuck
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 with what are called the great vinifera,
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 the Cabernet and certain grapes.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 And most of them coming from France and Italy.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 But I've found places in the world where they are making wine.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 That's surprisingly good.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Yeah.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: So I think\'a0 I\'92d love the tour.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: another time.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Yeah.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 R: OK.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 So, hold on one second.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 S: Let me stop the recording.
\f1\fs24 \
}